=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Chorus::Engine::ECA - ECA integration for compliance-validation applications

=head1 VERSION

This documentation applies to Chorus::Engine 1.05 and later.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Starting with version 1.05, C<Chorus::Engine> ships an optional companion
directory, C<eca/>, that turns the inference engine into a B<normed-corpus
compliance-validation platform> when used together with the B<ECA> editor
assistant (L<https://eca.dev>).

The companion provides:

=over 4

=item * B<Agent knowledge templates> — Emacs org-mode files that capture the
domain knowledge extracted from normative corpora (standards, DTUs, Eurocodes,
regulations…) for each pipeline agent.

=item * B<Four ECA skills> — reusable prompt-driven workflows (C<chorus-feed>,
C<chorus-create-project>, C<chorus-import-project>, C<chorus-check>) that drive
ECA to build and run complete validation applications from a corpus.

=back

The resulting workflow is entirely deterministic: the rules are derived from
the corpus, encoded as transparent YAML files, and executed verbatim by the
Chorus inference engine — no LLM black-box in the hot path.

=head1 OVERVIEW

The architecture connects three layers:

  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │  Normative corpus  (PDF, DTU, Eurocode, regulation…)     │
  └────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────┘
                           │  chorus-feed
                           ▼
  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │  KB org-mode  (eca/agents/<slug>.org)                    │
  │  · Frames catalogue    · Slot dictionary                 │
  │  · Rules catalogue     · Perl helpers (normative tables) │
  └────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────┘
                 ┌─────────┴──────────┐
      chorus-check│                   │chorus-create-project
                 ▼                   ▼
  ┌──────────────────────┐   ┌──────────────────────────┐
  │ YAML rules           │   │ projet.json              │
  │ Perl helpers         │   │ (test data or real        │
  │ Feed.pm / Expert.pm  │   │  engineering project)     │
  │ run.pl               │   └──────────────────────────┘
  └────────────┬─────────┘
               │  perl run.pl projet.json
               ▼
  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │  Chorus::Expert pipeline                                 │
  │  Agent1 → Agent2 → … → AgentN (termination)             │
  └────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────┘
                           │
                           ▼
               Compliance report (stdout)

=head1 ECA SKILLS

The four skills live in C<eca/skills/> and are loaded on demand by ECA.
They cover the entire lifecycle of a compliance-validation application.

=head2 chorus-feed

  chorus-feed <sandbox-name> <corpus> [--enrich]

Reads a normative corpus and produces all the B<knowledge artefacts> for the
sandbox:

=over 4

=item * One C<eca/agents/E<lt>slugE<gt>.org> KB file per agent (domain, Frame
catalogue, slot dictionary, rules catalogue, Perl helpers).

=item * One YAML rules file per rule (C<rules/E<lt>slugE<gt>/RNN-name.yml>).

=item * One C<Helpers.pm> per agent (normative tables, computed thresholds).

=item * C<eca/agents/index.org> (pipeline registry).

=back

C<chorus-feed> does B<not> generate any infrastructure code (C<Feed.pm>,
C<Expert.pm>, C<run.pl>).  Infrastructure is the sole responsibility of
C<chorus-check>.

The C<--enrich> flag activates incremental-enrichment mode (Mode B): the
existing KB is read and new corpus knowledge is merged into it.  Without
C<--enrich>, the corpus is always treated as a fresh source.

=head2 chorus-create-project

  chorus-create-project <sandbox-name> <output.json>

Reads the KB org files of the sandbox and generates a B<project JSON file>
populated with both conforming and non-conforming elements that exercise all
rules.  The skill never reads C<Helpers.pm> or any generated C<.pm> file;
the canonical source is always the KB org.

=head2 chorus-import-project

  chorus-import-project <sandbox-name> <source...> [--out <file.json>] [--batch]

Aligns the engineer's own project document (PDF, Word, Excel, plain text, or
inline data) with the KB slot terminology and produces a valid project JSON
file.  Three invocation modes are supported:

=over 4

=item * B<Unit mode> — one source file produces one JSON.

=item * B<Fusion mode> — N source files (same project, complementary) produce
one merged JSON.

=item * B<Batch mode> — a directory or a glob produces one JSON per source
file plus a synthesis report.

=back

=head2 chorus-check

  chorus-check <sandbox-name> <project-file.json>

The end-to-end validation command.  Given a sandbox with a complete KB (the
output of C<chorus-feed>) and a project JSON file, it:

=over 4

=item 1. Detects whether the sandbox already contains generated infrastructure
(C<run.pl>, C<Feed.pm>, C<Expert.pm>, at least one C<Agent/*.pm>).

=item 2. B<Fast path> — if the infrastructure is already present, goes
directly to execution.  A different project file never triggers
a regeneration.

=item 3. B<Full path> — if the infrastructure is absent, generates
C<Feed.pm>, one shell C<Agent/*.pm> per pipeline agent, C<Expert.pm>,
and C<run.pl> from the KB, then executes the pipeline.

=item 4. Displays the full compliance report verbatim (four blocks: global
rate + ASCII bar, per-agent traversal, per-element-type breakdown,
non-conformity summary with cascaded reasons).

=back

=head1 KB MODEL

Each agent's knowledge is stored in a single org-mode file following the
template C<eca/org/agents/_template.org>.  The template has ten sections:

  * Domaine              — agent speciality and corpus scope
  * Slots de ciblage     — _SCOPE strategy (A: discriminant value,
                            B: presence slot) + pre-population contract
  * Pipeline — contrat E/S — incoming slots (read) / outgoing slots (written)
  * Ontologie            — domain concepts → Frame mapping
  * Catalogue des Frames — per-Frame slot tables with constraints and hooks
  * Dictionnaire des slots — flat slot reference for writing CHERCHER/fmatch()
  * Catalogue des règles — per-rule intent, CHERCHER, CONDITION, EXCEPTION, EFFET
  * Helpers Perl         — normative helper signatures + full bodies
  * Contraintes & Pitfalls — domain-specific caveats

The pipeline registry C<eca/agents/index.org> records all agents in pipeline
order with their Perl module name, slug, KB file, and status.

=head1 SANDBOX LAYOUT

A sandbox is a self-contained directory under C<$CHORUS/sandboxes/> that
holds the corpus, the KB, the generated infrastructure, and the project files
for one application domain:

  <sandbox-name>/
    README.org              pipeline overview, corpus list, agent status
    corpus/
      001-<source>.txt      normative corpus (numbered for incremental feed)
    eca/
      agents/
        index.org           pipeline registry
        <slug>.org          per-agent KB file
    rules/
      <slug>/
        R01-<name>.yml      YAML rules (alphabetical order = load order)
        R02-<name>.yml
    lib/
      <Namespace>/
        Feed.pm             JSON → Chorus::Frame loader
        Expert.pm           pipeline assembly + process()
        Agent/
          <Name>.pm         shell: build(), loadRules(), Helpers injection
          <Name>/
            Helpers.pm      normative tables and computations (from corpus-feed)
    run.pl                  entry point: Feed → Expert → report
    projet-01.json          project data files
    projet-02.json

=head1 EXAMPLE

The sandbox C<test-corpus-04-scaling> (included in the distribution under
C<$CHORUS/sandboxes/>) illustrates a full seven-agent compliance pipeline for
timber-frame construction (DTU 31.2 — French standard for light wood framing).

=head2 Domain

14 structural elements (load-bearing studs, OSB panels, ridge beam, rafters,
thermal insulation, waterproofing membrane…) are validated against the full set
of DTU 31.2 requirements.

=head2 Pipeline

  Pos  Module                        Targeting slot        Posts
  ---  ----------------------------  --------------------  ---------------------------
   1   COB::Agent::Qualification     (feed-populated)      qualifie, besoin_ossature
   2   COB::Agent::Ossature          besoin_ossature       ossature_ok, besoin_charpente
   3   COB::Agent::Charpente         besoin_charpente      charpente_ok, besoin_thermique
   4   COB::Agent::Thermique         besoin_thermique      thermique_ok, besoin_securite
   5   COB::Agent::SecuriteFeu       besoin_securite       feu_ok, besoin_revetement
   6   COB::Agent::Revetement        besoin_revetement     revetement_ok, besoin_conformite
   7   COB::Agent::Conformite        besoin_conformite     statut_conformite → solved()

=head2 Sizing

  _MAX_CYCLES (each agent) : 21 000
  _MAX_ITER   (Expert)     : 168 000

  # Expert sizing — mandatory direct assignment (new() ignores its arguments):
  my $xprt = Chorus::Expert->new();
  $xprt->{_MAX_ITER} = 168_000;

  # run.pl heuristic
  my $max_cycles = scalar(@elements) * 50 * 10;
  $max_cycles = 21_000 if $max_cycles < 21_000;

=head2 Running the example

  cd $CHORUS/sandboxes/test-corpus-04-scaling
  perl run.pl projet-01.json

The report displays a global conformance rate with an ASCII progress bar,
a per-agent traversal table with the validation path of each element, a
per-element-type breakdown, and a non-conformity summary with cascaded reasons.

=head1 WORKFLOW SUMMARY

  1. chorus-feed <sandbox> <corpus.txt>
        → KB org files  + YAML rules  + Helpers.pm

  2. chorus-create-project <sandbox> projet.json     (or chorus-import-project)
        → projet.json  (conforming + non-conforming elements)

  3. chorus-check <sandbox> projet.json
        → Feed.pm  Expert.pm  Agent/*.pm  run.pl  → compliance report

  # Incremental enrichment with a second corpus:
  4. chorus-feed <sandbox> <second-corpus.txt> --enrich
        → updated KB + new YAML rules

  # Re-validate with a new project (infrastructure already present → fast path):
  5. chorus-check <sandbox> projet-02.json
        → compliance report  (no regeneration)

=head1 DESIGN PRINCIPLES

=over 4

=item * B<Separation of concerns> — C<chorus-feed> owns knowledge; C<chorus-check>
owns infrastructure.  The two are orthogonal: a KB enrichment does not
require a project, and a new project does not require re-feeding.

=item * B<Full traceability> — every normative threshold and table in
C<Helpers.pm> carries a C<# Source corpus: §N — title> annotation.  Every
YAML rule name maps to a section of the KB catalogue.

=item * B<Deterministic execution> — the LLM (ECA) participates only in the
knowledge-extraction and code-generation phases.  The hot path (rule firing,
Frame inference, report) is pure Chorus — no LLM call at runtime.

=item * B<Incremental design> — a sandbox accumulates knowledge across
multiple C<chorus-feed> invocations.  The generated infrastructure is always
derived from the current state of the KB.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item C<eca/skills/chorus-engine.md>

Full motor reference (Frame, Engine, Expert, Collection, YAML DSL, anti-pitfalls).
Loaded automatically by ECA when Perl code is created or modified inside
C<$ENGINE>.

=item C<eca/skills/chorus-feed.md>

Detailed instructions for the C<chorus-feed> skill (Mode A + Mode B).

=item C<eca/skills/chorus-check.md>

Detailed instructions for the C<chorus-check> skill (fast path + full path).

=item C<eca/skills/chorus-create-project.md>

Detailed instructions for the C<chorus-create-project> skill.

=item C<eca/skills/chorus-import-project.md>

Detailed instructions for the C<chorus-import-project> skill (unit / fusion /
batch modes).

=item C<eca/org/agents/_template.org>

Canonical KB template for a pipeline agent (all ten sections).

=item C<eca/org/agents/index.org>

Pipeline registry template (agent table, pipeline notes, corpus index).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Chorus::Engine>, L<Chorus::Expert>, L<Chorus::Frame>,
L<Chorus::Collection::List>, L<Chorus::Collection::Filter>

ECA editor assistant: L<https://eca.dev>

=head1 AUTHOR

Christophe Ivorra, E<lt>ch.ivorra@free.frE<gt>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 Christophe Ivorra.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See L<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/> for more information.

=cut
